<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang="EN" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"
    xmlns:mml="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML">

<head>
    <meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
    <title>Golden ePub ENHANCED v2024.e2 - Glossary (DFN)</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../styles/Elsevier_eBook.css" />
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../styles/math.css" />
    <link rel="stylesheet" media="only screen" type="text/css" href="../styles/media.css" />

    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../widgets/Glossary/css/style.css" />
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../widgets/common_assets/css/common.css" />
    <script type="text/javascript" src="../widgets/Glossary/script/jquery-3.6.0.min.js"></script>
    <script type="text/javascript" src="../widgets/Glossary/script/glossary-data.js"></script>
    <script type="text/javascript" src="../widgets/Glossary/script/transcription.js"></script>
    <script type="text/javascript" src="../widgets/common_assets/scripts/mathjax/tex-mml-chtml.js"></script>
    <script type="text/javascript" src="../widgets/common_assets/scripts/common.js"></script>
</head>

<body>
   <main role="main">
    <section role="doc-chapter" epub:type="chapter" id="c0002">
        <div id="CN"><a id="CHP002" /></div>
        <header>
            <hgroup>
                <h1 class="chaptitle" id="CHP001tit">Glossary (DFN)</h1>
            </hgroup>
        </header>
        <div class="content-container">
            <div class="document-area11">
               <h1>Transcription Factors</h1>
               <h2>DNA-binding transcription factors recognize specific DNA sequences</h2>
               <div class="page-content">
                  <p>
                     <!--Annotation/ Glossary Template Unique ID: 4YWODG9CB2Q3S0VZ-->
                     The preceding discussion has emphasized the structure of the gene and the <i>cis</i>-acting elements that
                     regulate gene expression. We now turn to the proteins that interact with these DNA elements and thus
                     regulate gene transcription. Because the basal transcriptional machinery—Pol II and the general
                     transcription factors—is incapable of efficient gene transcription alone, additional proteins are
                     required to stimulate the activity of the enzyme complex. The additional proteins include transcription
                     factors that recognize and bind to specific DNA sequences (enhancers) located near their target genes, as
                     well as others (see <button class="dropdown def-img text-highlighter" tabindex="0" role="button" aria-label="tooltip" data-dfn="l1"></button>
                     pp. 83–84) that
                     do not bind to DNA.
                  </p>
      
                  <p>Examples of <b>DNA-binding transcription factors</b> are shown in Table 4-1. The general mechanism of action of a specific transcription factor
                     is depicted in Figure 4-6<i style="color: rgb(0, 107, 178);">B</i>.
                     After the basal transcriptional machinery assembles on the gene promoter, it can interact with a
                     transcription factor that binds to a specific DNA element, the enhancer (or silencer). Looping out of the
                     intervening DNA permits physical interaction between the activator (or repressor) and the basal
                     transcriptional machinery, which subsequently leads to stimulation (or inhibition) of gene transcription.
                     The specificity with which transcription factors bind to DNA depends on the interactions between the
                     amino-acid side chains of the transcription factor and the purine and pyrimidine bases in DNA. Most of
                     these interactions consist of noncovalent hydrogen bonds between amino acids and DNA bases. A peptide
                     capable of a specific pattern of hydrogen bonding can recognize and bind to the reciprocal pattern in the
                     major (and to a lesser extent the minor) groove of DNA. Interaction with the DNA backbone may also occur
                     and involves electrostatic interactions (salt bridge formation) with anionic phosphate groups. The site
                     that a transcription factor recognizes
                     (see Table 4-1) is generally short, usually less than a dozen or so base pairs.
                  </p>
      
                  <div class="table-title">
                     <span class="table-designation">TABLE</span>
                     <span class="table-enumeration">4-1</span>
                     <span class="table-caption">DNA-Binding Transcription Factors and the DNA Sequences They Recognize</span>
      
                     <div class="">
      
                        <table class="table-4-1" id="table-tab">
                           <thead>
      
                              <tr>
                              
                                 <th>NAME</th>
      
                                 <th>TYPE</th>
      
                                 <th>RECOGNITION SITE
      
                                    <!--Poptip Template Unique ID: QJX809LHST4CDEG7-->
                                    <button class="star dropdown def-img star-tooltip col-white" aria-label="star" tabindex="0"
                                       role="button" data-dfn="l2"></button>
                                 </th>
      
                                 <th>BINDS AS
                                    <button class="anychar dropdown def-img anychar-tooltip col-white" aria-label="m dash" tabindex="0" role="button" data-dfn="l5">&#8212;</button>
                                 </th>
                              </tr>
                           </thead>
      
                           <tbody>
      
                              <tr>
      
                                 <td>Sp1</td>
      
                                 <td>Zinc finger</td>
      
                                 <td>5′-GGGCGG-3′</td>
      
                                 <td>Monomer</td>
                              </tr>
      
                              <tr>
      
                                 <td>AP-1</td>
      
                                 <td>bZIP</td>
      
                                 <td>5′-TGASTCA-3′</td>
      
                                 <td>Dimer</td>
                              </tr>
      
                              <tr>
      
                                 <td>C/EBP</td>
      
                                 <td>bZIP</td>
      
                                 <td>5′-ATTGCGCAAT-3′</td>
      
                                 <td>Dimer</td>
                              </tr>
      
                              <tr>
      
                                 <td>Heat shock factor</td>
      
                                 <td>bZIP</td>
      
                                 <td>5′-NGAAN-3′</td>
      
                                 <td>Trimer</td>
                              </tr>
      
                              <tr>
      
                                 <td>ATF/CREB</td>
      
                                 <td>bZIP</td>
      
                                 <td>5′-TGACGTCA-3′</td>
      
                                 <td>Dimer</td>
                              </tr>
      
                              <tr>
      
                                 <td>c-Myc</td>
      
                                 <td>bHLH</td>
      
                                 <td>5′-CACGTG-3′</td>
      
                                 <td>Dimer</td>
                              </tr>
      
                              <tr>
      
                                 <td>Oct-1</td>
      
                                 <td>HTH</td>
      
                                 <td>5′-ATGCAAAT-3′</td>
      
                                 <td>Monomer</td>
                              </tr>
      
                              <tr>
      
                                 <td>NF-1</td>
      
                                 <td>Novel</td>
      
                                 <td>5′-TTGGCN<sub>5</sub>GCCAA-3′</td>
      
                                 <td>Dimer</td>
                              </tr>
                           </tbody>
                           <tfoot>
      
                              <tr>
      
                                 <td colspan="4">
                                    ATF, activating transcription factor; NF-1, nuclear factor 1.
                                 </td>
                              </tr>
                           </tfoot>
                        </table>
                     </div>
                  </div>
      
                  <p>DNA-binding transcription factors do not recognize single, unique DNA sequences; rather, they recognize a
                     <i>family</i> of closely related sequences. For example, the transcription factor AP-1 (activator protein
                     1) recognizes the sequences
                  </p>
      
                  <ul>
      
                     <li>
                        5′-<span class="tga" aria-label="T G A">TGA</span> C <span aria-label="T C" class="tga">TC</span>A-3′
                     </li>
      
                     <li>
                        5′-<span class="tga" aria-label="T G A">TGA</span> C <span aria-label="T C" class="tga">TC</span>A-3′
                     </li>
      
                     <li>
                        5′-<span class="tga" aria-label="T G A">TGA</span> C <span aria-label="T C" class="tga">TC</span>A-3′
                     </li>
                  </ul>
      
                  <p>and so on, as well as each of the complementary sequences. That is, some <i>redundancy</i> is usually
                     built into the recognition sequence for a transcription factor. An important consequence of these
                     properties is that the recognition site for a transcription factor may occur many times in the genome.
                     For example, if a transcription factor recognizes a 6-bp sequence, the sequence would be expected to
                     occur once every 4<sup>6</sup> (or <span aria-label="4,0,9,6,7)"> 4096)</span> base pairs, that is, <span
                        aria-label="seven multiply by 10 power of 5 for 7 × 105 ">7 × 10<sup>5</sup></span> times in the human
                     genome. If redundancy is permitted, recognition sites will occur even more frequently. Of course, most of
                     these sites will not be relevant to gene regulation but will instead have occurred simply by chance. This
                     high frequency of recognition sites leads to an important concept: <i>transcription factors act in
                        combination.</i> Thus, high-level expression of a gene requires that a combination of multiple
                     transcription factors bind to multiple regulatory elements. Although it is complicated, this system
                     ensures that transcription activation occurs only at appropriate locations. Moreover, this system permits
                     greater fine-tuning of the system, inasmuch as the activity of individual transcription factors can be
                     altered to modulate the overall level of transcription of a gene.</p>
                     <!--Annotation/ Glossary Template Unique ID: 4YWODG9CB2Q3S0VZ-->
                     <p>An important general feature of DNA-binding transcription factors is their <b>modular</b> construction (Fig. 4-8<i>A</i>). Transcription factors may be divided into discrete domains that bind DNA (DNA-binding domains) and domains that activate transcription (transactivation domains). 
                     <button class="dropdown def-img text-highlighter" tabindex="0" role="button" aria-label="tooltip" title="n4-6"  data-dfn="l3">Grouping of Transcription Factors According to Transactivation Domain </button> This property was first directly demonstrated for a yeast transcription factor known as GAL4, which activates certain genes when yeast grows in galactose-containing media. GAL4 has two domains. One is a so-called zinc finger (see <dfn title="ch04-82a"> </dfn>p. 82) that mediates sequence-specific binding to DNA. The other domain is enriched in acidic amino acids (i.e., glutamate and aspartate) and is necessary for transcriptional activation. This “acidic blob” domain of GAL4 can be removed and replaced with the transactivation domain from a different transcription factor VP16 (see Fig. 4-8<i>B</i>). The resulting GAL4-VP16 chimera binds to the same DNA sequence as normal GAL4 but mediates transcriptional activation via the VP16 transactivation domain. This type of “domain-swapping” experiment indicates that transcription factors have a modular construction in which physically distinct domains mediate binding to DNA and transcriptional activation (or repression).</p>
      
                  <h3>MathML in Poptip/Glossary</h3>
                  <p>
                        Below is inline math equation.
                        When \(a \ne 0\), there are two solutions to \(ax^2 + bx + c = 0\) and they are
                        $$x = {-b \pm \sqrt{b^2-4ac} \over 2a}.$$
                  </p>
                  <p></p>
                  <p>   
                     MathML/MathJax enabled poptip. Click <button class="dropdown def-img text-highlighter" aria-label="m dash" tabindex="0" role="button" data-dfn="l4"></button>  icon to launch math equation in poptip.
                  </p>
                  
      
               </div>
            </div>
            
      
            <div id="ariaMessages" class="visually-hidden" aria-live="assertive" />
         </div>
    </section>
   </main>
</body>

</html>