<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang="EN" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"
    xmlns:mml="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML">

<head>
    <meta charset="utf-8" />
    <title>Golden ePub ENHANCED v2024.e2 - Hotspot</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../styles/Elsevier_eBook.css" />
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../styles/math.css" />
    <link rel="stylesheet" media="only screen" type="text/css" href="../styles/media.css" />

    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../widgets/common_assets/css/common.css" />
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../widgets/common_assets/css/variables.css" />
</head>

<body>
    <section role="doc-chapter" epub:type="chapter" id="c0002">
        <div id="CN"><a id="CHP002" /></div>
        <header>
            <hgroup>
                <h1 class="chaptitle" id="sl">Hotspot</h1>
            </hgroup>
        </header>
        <div class="pageavoid">
            <figure class="fig" id="f0125">
                <iframe src="../widgets/Hotspot/xhtml/Hotspot.xhtml" height="600" title="Hotspot interactive activity"></iframe>
                <figcaption class="figleg"><a id="cap0120" /><a id="fspara0120" /><span class="fignum">Fig.
                        3.24</span> The general plan of a peripheral myelinated nerve fibre in longitudinal section,
                    including one complete internodal segment and two adjacent paranodal bulbs, used as a key for the
                    more detailed microarchitecture of specific subregions. <span class="bold">A</span>, A transverse
                    electron microscope section through the centre of a node of Ranvier, with numerous finger-like
                    processes of adjacent Schwann cells converging towards the nodal axolemma. Many microtubules and
                    neurofilaments are visible within the axoplasm. <span class="bold">B</span>, The arrangement of the
                    axon, myelin sheath and Schwann cell cytoplasm at the node of Ranvier, in the paranodal bulbs and in
                    the juxtaparanodal region. The axon is myelinated by a Schwann cell surrounded by a basal lamina
                    (BL). Only a portion of the internode, which is located beneath the compact myelin (CM) sheath, is
                    shown. A spiral of paranodal (green) and juxtaparanodal (blue) proteins extends into the internode;
                    this spiral is apposed to the inner mesaxon of the myelin sheath (not shown). K<sup>+</sup> channels
                    and Caspr2 are concentrated in the juxtaparanodal region. In the paranodal region, the compact
                    myelin sheath opens up into a series of paranodal cytoplasmic loops (PNL) that invaginate and
                    closely appose the axon, forming a series of septum-like junctions that spiral around the axon.
                    Caspr, contactin and an isoform of neurofascin (NF155) are concentrated in this region. At the node,
                    numerous microvilli (MV) project from the outer collar of the Schwann cell to contact the axolemma.
                    The axon is enormously enriched in intramembranous particles at the node that correspond to
                    Na<sup>+</sup> channels (Na<sup>+</sup> ch). Ankyrin G (ank G) isoforms and the cell adhesion
                    molecules NrCAM and NF186 are also concentrated in this region. <br /><span class="figcredit">A,
                        Courtesy of Professor Susan Standring, GKT School of Medicine, London. B, Adapted with
                        permission from Peles E, Salzer JL 2000 Molecular domains of myelinated axons. Curr Opin
                        Neurobiol 10:558–65.</span></figcaption>
            </figure>
        </div>

    </section>
    <script src="../widgets/common_assets/scripts/common.js"></script>
</body>

</html>