<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<!-- Version 19, Date:30 MAR 2022 -->
<!--Embedded_Audio Template Unique ID: ZQ3RWC6UONT59JS7-->

<head>
    <meta charset="utf-8" />
    <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1, shrink-to-fit=no" />
    <title>What is Psychopathology?</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../common_assets/css/variables.css"/>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../../styles/Elsevier_eBook.css" />
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../css/style.css" />
    <script type="text/javascript" src="../script/jquery-3.6.0.min.js"></script>
    <script type="text/javascript" src="../script/jquery-ui.min.js"></script>
    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../common_assets/scripts/common.js"></script>
</head>
<!--[if gt IE 9]><!-->

<body class="audiofigure-exhibit has-bottom-bar">
    <div class="book" role="main">

        <div class="bottom-bar-container center-in-display">
            <div class="bottom-bar">
                <div class="inline-audio">
                    <div class="subcaption">
                        <h2 class="audio-title" id="audio-title">What is Psychopathology?</h2>
                    </div>
                    <audio controls="controls" class="playAudio" controlslist="nodownload" aria-label="Audio Player">
                        <source src="../audio/what-is-psychopathology.mp3" type="audio/mpeg" />
                        <source src="../audio/what-is-psychopathology.ogg" type="audio/ogg" />
                        Your browser does not support the audio element.
                    </audio>
                    <div class="about-the-audio-container">
                        <button class="about-the-audio" aria-expanded="false">Audio Transcript</button>
                        <div id="audio-description" class="audio-description collapsed">
                            What is psychopathology? In this podcast I shall talk about psychopathology, specifically about descriptive psychopathology, emphasising the method of descriptive psychopathology, including the role of empathy, observation of behaviours, and finally I shall touch on the complex subject of what Jaspers meant by the terms understandability and un-understandability. 
                            <br/>
                            1. Psychopathology The word psychopathology derives from the terms psyche, pathos and logia, translating to mind, suffering and the study of, namely the study of suffering of the mind. Formally we can define psychopathology as the systematic study of abnormal experience, cognition and behaviour, the study of the products of a disordered mind.
                            <br/>
                            It includes the explanatory psychopathologies in which there are assumed explanations according to theoretical constructs, for example on a cognitive, behavioural, psychodynamic or existential basis, and descriptive psychopathology which is the precise description, categorisation and definition of abnormal experiences as recounted by the patient and observed in his behaviour. 
                            <br/>
                            My goal is to focus on descriptive psychopathology in this podcast. Descriptive psychopathology is concerned with the selection, delimitation, differentiation and description of particular phenomena of experience which through the use of accepted terminology become both defined and capable of repeated identification.
                            <br/>
                            In other words, phenomena of interest are selected, their conceptual boundaries identified and differentiated from other selected phenomena and these are then described and named. For example, hallucinations may come to be distinguished from delusions, identifying the differences between abnormality of perception and abnormality of thinking. Examples are carefully described, then defined and if necessary given a name.
                            <br/>
                            Or auditory verbal hallucinations are  distinguished from auditory musical hallucinations. Descriptive psychopathology, as distinct from other forms of psychopathology, avoids theoretical explanations of the phenomena that it describes. It simply describes, therefore avoiding arguments about causation.
                            <br/>
                            Hence, descriptive psychopathology guards against and avoids theory, presupposition or prejudice. This constraint of descriptive psychopathology acts to secure the conceptual framework of phenomenology, restricted to the actual subjective experience of the patient.
                        </div>
                    </div>
                </div>
            </div>
        </div>

        <div id="ariaMessages" class="visually-hidden" aria-live="assertive" />
    </div>
    <script>
        var allImageElmts = document.querySelectorAll("video");
        allImageElmts.forEach(imgelement => {
            imgelement.addEventListener("contextmenu", function (event) {
                event.preventDefault();
                return false;
            });
        });
        document.addEventListener("contextmenu", function (e) {
            e.preventDefault();
        }, false);
    </script>
</body>

</html>